# Applied Data Science Lab 
I have completed the Applied Data Science course offered by WorldQuant University. Here is the verification badge link [click here](https://www.credly.com/badges/1c3e5ec1-f0ef-41f9-8f18-2d36c35b67c0/public_url)
## learning Criteria
I completed eight projects. Each project consists of four self-paced lessons, followed by an assignment that is programmatically graded. For each assessment, students must score 90% or better:
* **HOUSING IN MEXICO**: I used a dataset of 21,000 properties to determine if real estate prices are influenced more by property size or location. I import and clean data from a CSV file, build data visualizations, and examine the **relationship** between two variables using **correlation**.
* **APARTMENT SALES IN BUENOS AIRES**: I built a **linear regression model** to predict apartment prices in Argentina. Then create a data pipeline to impute missing values and **encode categorical features**, and improve model performance by reducing overfitting.
* **AIR QUALITY IN NAIROBI**: I built an **ARMA model** to predict particulate matter levels in Kenya. They extract data from a **MongoDB database** using pymongo, and improve model performance through **hyperparameter tuning**.
* **EARTHQUAKE DAMAGE IN NEPAL**: I built **logistic regression** and **decision tree models** to predict earthquake damage to buildings. Then extract data from a **SQLite database**, and reveal the biases in data that can lead to discrimination.
* **BANKRUPTCY IN POLAND**: I built **random forest** and **gradient boosting models** to predict whether a company will go bankrupt. Then navigate the **Linux command line**, address imbalanced data through **resampling**, and consider the impact of **performance metrics** precision and recall.
* **CUSTOMER SEGMENTATION IN THE US**: I built a **k-means model** to cluster US consumers into groups. Then use **principal component analysis (PCA)** for data visualization, and they create an **interactive dashboard** with Plotly Dash.
* **A/B TESTING AT WORLDQUANT UNIVERSITY**: I conducted a **chi-square test** to determine if sending an email can increase program enrollment at WQU. They build custom Python classes to implement an **ETL process**, and they create an interactive data application following a three-tiered design pattern.
* **VOLATILITY FORECASTING IN INDIA**: I created a **GARCH model** to predict asset volatility. They acquire stock data through an **API**, clean and store it in a SQLite database, and built own **API to serve model predictions**.
